README.md, before:

# Skryptonite

Industry-standard(ish) screenwriting in the browser.

Skryptonite is a fast, offline-friendly screenplay editor built with vanilla JS + Vite. It’s designed to feel like a real desktop tool: menu bar, keyboard shortcuts, pagination, scene sidebar, autosave, and multiple scripts open at once via in-app tabs.

Note: the Vite app lives in the nested folder `./skryptonite/`.

## Features

- **Screenplay formatting**: Scene headings, action, character, parenthetical, dialogue, transitions.
- **Standard screenplay typography**: `Courier New` at `12pt` for screenplay pages and print/PDF.
- **Quick format toolbar**: One-click format buttons + Title Page toggle under the tabs.
- **Pagination**: Pages are laid out as 8.5"×11" and overflow is moved to the next page.
- **Scene sidebar**: Scene headings are detected and listed for quick navigation.
- **Tabs**: Work on multiple scripts at once (New/Open create new tabs).
- **Autosave backup**: Periodic backup to `localStorage`.
- **Save/Open**:
	- Uses the **File System Access API** when available (best experience).
	- Falls back to download/upload when not supported.
- **PWA**: Installable.
- **Print / Save as PDF**: Print-friendly layout + optional page numbers.

## Quick start (from repo root)

Prereqs: **Node.js 18+** recommended.

```bash
npm run install:app
npm run dev
```

Then open the URL Vite prints (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Quick start (from app folder)

```bash
cd skryptonite
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Build

From repo root:

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

The production build goes to `skryptonite/dist/`.

## Deploy (recommended)

This repo includes GitHub Actions workflows:

- **CI build** on every push/PR
- **GitHub Pages deploy** on pushes to `main`

To enable Pages:

1. In GitHub: **Settings → Pages**
2. Under **Build and deployment**, set **Source** to **GitHub Actions**

Once enabled, every merge/push to `main` will publish the site.

## Using the editor

### Quick toolbar

Under the tabs there’s a quick toolbar for:

- **Title Page** toggle
- **Scene / Action / Character / Paren / Dialogue / Trans** format buttons

The active format button lights up based on your current line.

### Menu / shortcuts

- **New Script**: `Ctrl+N` (opens a new tab)
- **Open…**: `Ctrl+O` (opens in a new tab)
- **Save**: `Ctrl+S`
- **Save As…**: `Ctrl+Shift+S`
- **Settings**: `Ctrl+,`
- **Toggle sidebar**: `Ctrl+B`
- **Dark paper mode**: `Ctrl+D`
- **Format current line**:
	- `Tab` cycles element type
	- `Ctrl+1..6` sets a specific type

### Settings

Open via **View → Settings…**.

- **Include title page when printing**
- **Show page numbers** (starts on page 2)

## Printing / PDF tips

Skryptonite uses the browser print dialog for PDF output.

For best results in Chrome/Edge:

- Set paper size to **Letter**
- Disable browser **Headers and footers**
- Keep scaling at **100%**

## License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.

## Support

Skryptonite is free and open source. If you’d like to support development, you can sponsor the project on GitHub:

- https://github.com/sponsors/jimminiglitch

Or tip via Venmo:

- https://venmo.com/u/lilbbboy

Commit message:

Rename app folder to sluggo and rebrand to SlugGo

README.md, after:

# SlugGo

Industry-standard(ish) screenwriting in the browser.

SlugGo is a fast, offline-friendly screenplay editor built with vanilla JS + Vite. It’s designed to feel like a real desktop tool: menu bar, keyboard shortcuts, pagination, scene sidebar, autosave, and multiple scripts open at once via in-app tabs.

Note: the Vite app lives in the nested folder `./sluggo/`.

## Features

- **Screenplay formatting**: Scene headings, action, character, parenthetical, dialogue, transitions.
- **Standard screenplay typography**: `Courier New` at `12pt` for screenplay pages and print/PDF.
- **Quick format toolbar**: One-click format buttons + Title Page toggle under the tabs.
- **Pagination**: Pages are laid out as 8.5"×11" and overflow is moved to the next page.
- **Scene sidebar**: Scene headings are detected and listed for quick navigation.
- **Tabs**: Work on multiple scripts at once (New/Open create new tabs).
- **Autosave backup**: Periodic backup to `localStorage`.
- **Save/Open**:
	- Uses the **File System Access API** when available (best experience).
	- Falls back to download/upload when not supported.
- **PWA**: Installable.
- **Print / Save as PDF**: Print-friendly layout + optional page numbers.

## Quick start (from repo root)

Prereqs: **Node.js 18+** recommended.

```bash
npm run install:app
npm run dev
```

Then open the URL Vite prints (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Quick start (from app folder)

```bash
cd sluggo
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Build

From repo root:

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

The production build goes to `sluggo/dist/`.

## Deploy (recommended)

This repo includes GitHub Actions workflows:

- **CI build** on every push/PR
- **GitHub Pages deploy** on pushes to `main`

To enable Pages:

1. In GitHub: **Settings → Pages**
2. Under **Build and deployment**, set **Source** to **GitHub Actions**

Once enabled, every merge/push to `main` will publish the site.

## Using the editor

### Quick toolbar

Under the tabs there’s a quick toolbar for:

- **Title Page** toggle
- **Scene / Action / Character / Paren / Dialogue / Trans** format buttons

The active format button lights up based on your current line.

### Menu / shortcuts

- **New Script**: `Ctrl+N` (opens a new tab)
- **Open…**: `Ctrl+O` (opens in a new tab)
- **Save**: `Ctrl+S`
- **Save As…**: `Ctrl+Shift+S`
- **Settings**: `Ctrl+,`
- **Toggle sidebar**: `Ctrl+B`
- **Dark paper mode**: `Ctrl+D`
- **Format current line**:
	- `Tab` cycles element type
	- `Ctrl+1..6` sets a specific type

### Settings

Open via **View → Settings…**.

- **Include title page when printing**
- **Show page numbers** (starts on page 2)

## Printing / PDF tips

SlugGo uses the browser print dialog for PDF output.

For best results in Chrome/Edge:

- Set paper size to **Letter**
- Disable browser **Headers and footers**
- Keep scaling at **100%**

## License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.

## Support

SlugGo is free and open source. If you’d like to support development, you can sponsor the project on GitHub:

- https://github.com/sponsors/jimminiglitch

Or tip via Venmo:

- https://venmo.com/u/lilbbboy
