skryptonite/README.md, before:

# Skryptonite

Industry-standard(ish) screenwriting in the browser.

Skryptonite is a fast, offline-friendly screenplay editor built with vanilla JS + Vite. It’s designed to feel like a real desktop tool: menu bar, keyboard shortcuts, pagination, scene sidebar, autosave, and multiple scripts open at once via in-app tabs.

## Features

- **Screenplay formatting**: Scene headings, action, character, parenthetical, dialogue, transitions.
- **Pagination**: Pages are laid out as 8.5"×11" and overflow is moved to the next page.
- **Scene sidebar**: Scene headings are detected and listed for quick navigation.
- **Tabs**: Work on multiple scripts at once (New/Open create new tabs).
- **Autosave backup**: Periodic backup to `localStorage`.
- **Save/Open**:
  - Uses the **File System Access API** when available (best experience).
  - Falls back to download/upload when not supported.
- **PWA**: Installable; includes a minimal service worker cache.
- **Print / Save as PDF**: Print-friendly layout + optional page numbers.

## Quick start

Prereqs: **Node.js 18+** recommended.

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Then open the URL Vite prints (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Build

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

The production build goes to `dist/`.

## Using the editor

### Menu / shortcuts

- **New Script**: `Ctrl+N` (opens a new tab)
- **Open…**: `Ctrl+O` (opens in a new tab)
- **Save**: `Ctrl+S`
- **Save As…**: `Ctrl+Shift+S`
- **Settings**: `Ctrl+,`
- **Toggle sidebar**: `Ctrl+B`
- **Dark paper mode**: `Ctrl+D`
- **Format current line**:
  - `Tab` cycles element type
  - `Ctrl+1..6` sets a specific type

### Settings

Open via **View → Settings…**.

- **Include title page when printing**
- **Show page numbers** (starts on page 2)

## Printing / PDF tips

Skryptonite uses the browser print dialog for PDF output.

For best results in Chrome/Edge:
- Set paper size to **Letter**
- Disable browser **Headers and footers**
- Avoid “Fit to page” scaling (use default / 100%)

Note: Different browsers can render print layout slightly differently.

## File formats

### `.skrypt`

A `.skrypt` file is **JSON** with:
- `metadata`: title page fields
- `content`: serialized HTML for screenplay pages

This makes the editor simple and fast, but also means `.skrypt` is currently **Skryptonite-specific**.

### Text export

Plain text export is meant for readability and quick sharing.

### FDX export (experimental)

FDX export is currently a minimal/experimental output and may not round-trip cleanly with Final Draft.

## Browser support notes

- Best experience: **Chromium-based browsers** (Chrome/Edge) because of File System Access API support.
- Other browsers still work via download/upload fallback.

## Development notes

Project layout:

- `index.html` — app shell + menus/modals
- `src/main.js` — editor logic, tabs, save/open/export
- `src/style.css` — UI + print styling
- `public/manifest.json` / `public/service-worker.js` — PWA assets

## License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.

Commit message:

Update README and index.html to enhance quick formatting toolbar documentation

skryptonite/README.md, after:

# Skryptonite

Industry-standard(ish) screenwriting in the browser.

Skryptonite is a fast, offline-friendly screenplay editor built with vanilla JS + Vite. It’s designed to feel like a real desktop tool: menu bar, keyboard shortcuts, pagination, scene sidebar, autosave, and multiple scripts open at once via in-app tabs.

## Features

- **Screenplay formatting**: Scene headings, action, character, parenthetical, dialogue, transitions.
- **Standard screenplay typography**: `Courier New` at `12pt` for screenplay pages and print/PDF.
- **Quick format toolbar**: One-click format buttons + Title Page toggle under the tabs.
- **Pagination**: Pages are laid out as 8.5"×11" and overflow is moved to the next page.
- **Scene sidebar**: Scene headings are detected and listed for quick navigation.
- **Tabs**: Work on multiple scripts at once (New/Open create new tabs).
- **Autosave backup**: Periodic backup to `localStorage`.
- **Save/Open**:
  - Uses the **File System Access API** when available (best experience).
  - Falls back to download/upload when not supported.
- **PWA**: Installable; includes a minimal service worker cache.
- **Print / Save as PDF**: Print-friendly layout + optional page numbers.

## Quick start

Prereqs: **Node.js 18+** recommended.

If you're in the repo root, you can run `npm run dev` there too (it forwards into this app folder).

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

Then open the URL Vite prints (usually `http://localhost:5173`).

## Build

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

The production build goes to `dist/`.

## Using the editor

### Quick toolbar

Under the tabs there’s a quick toolbar for:

- **Title Page** toggle
- **Scene / Action / Character / Parenthetical / Dialogue / Transition** format buttons

The active format button lights up based on your current line.

### Menu / shortcuts

- **New Script**: `Ctrl+N` (opens a new tab)
- **Open…**: `Ctrl+O` (opens in a new tab)
- **Save**: `Ctrl+S`
- **Save As…**: `Ctrl+Shift+S`
- **Settings**: `Ctrl+,`
- **Toggle sidebar**: `Ctrl+B`
- **Dark paper mode**: `Ctrl+D`
- **Format current line**:
  - `Tab` cycles element type
  - `Ctrl+1..6` sets a specific type

### Settings

Open via **View → Settings…**.

- **Include title page when printing**
- **Show page numbers** (starts on page 2)

## Printing / PDF tips

Skryptonite uses the browser print dialog for PDF output.

For best results in Chrome/Edge:
- Set paper size to **Letter**
- Disable browser **Headers and footers**
- Avoid “Fit to page” scaling (use default / 100%)

Note: Different browsers can render print layout slightly differently.

## File formats

### `.skrypt`

A `.skrypt` file is **JSON** with:
- `metadata`: title page fields
- `content`: serialized HTML for screenplay pages

This makes the editor simple and fast, but also means `.skrypt` is currently **Skryptonite-specific**.

### Text export

Plain text export is meant for readability and quick sharing.

### FDX export (experimental)

FDX export is currently a minimal/experimental output and may not round-trip cleanly with Final Draft.

## Browser support notes

- Best experience: **Chromium-based browsers** (Chrome/Edge) because of File System Access API support.
- Other browsers still work via download/upload fallback.

## Development notes

Project layout:

- `index.html` — app shell + menus/modals
- `src/main.js` — editor logic, tabs, save/open/export
- `src/style.css` — UI + print styling
- `public/manifest.json` / `public/service-worker.js` — PWA assets

## License

MIT — see `LICENSE`.
